Introduction
============

LeapingMonkey is an object oriented C++ library for solving differential
equations using pseudo-spectral methods based on the collocation method.
The Legendre and Chebyshev (roots and extrema) methods are currently
implemented although it should be straightforward to implement Fourier
methods.

There are example programs to find the apparent horizons in black hole
spacetimes, and to solve the initial data problem in General relativity
for Bowen-York initial data with arbitrary distribution generated
singularities. In particular, the Hamiltonian object is able to create
single boosted spinning punctures and trumpets as well as giving those
black holes spin quadrupole moments.

Installing
==========

To install, modify the makefile and set the GSL and MKL variables to
point to the MKL and GSL libraries and include directories and then
simply type 

> make

to install in the local directory. Documentation can be generated with

> make docs

so long as Doxygen, latex and dot are installed and in the path. Extra
documentation can be made by entering the docs directory and typing make
there:

> cd docs; make

This will generate pdf documents that pedagogically derive some of the
equations needed by the various objects (currently only the apparent
horizon). To use the LeapingMonkey library more generally, a library
path can be set using prefix=<libpath> and LeapingMonkey will be
installed there:

> make LeapingMonkey prefix=<libpath>

Unit tests
==========

What unit tests exist are located in files named TestObject.C and the
tests can be built and run by running in the tests directory

> cd tests
> make
> runTests

These are not as extensive as I would like.

Contact
=======

If you find LeapingMonkey and the programs using it to be useful please
contact me at atonita@gmail.com with any comments or questions that come
to your mind. Especially contact me if you are interested in extending
the functionality of LeapingMonkey or in extending the research related
results produced by the current code.

License
=======

LeapingMonkey and associated content are licensed under the GPLv3.
The wording of the GPLv3 can be found in the file COPYING. LeapingMonkey
is Copyright 2011, Aaryn Tonita.

Attribution
===========

The work is currently unpublished.
